Claude Fable 5 is the most powerful
model in the world. And one of the best
things that you can do right now, while
it's still part of your subscription, is
to point it to your workspace and have
it create for you a proper second brain
system. And no, I'm not talking about a
simple Obsidian graph that doesn't
really do anything except for show. I'm
talking about a proper system, one that
maps your whole workspace, cuts your
token cost, and finds anything faster
than your default Claude code. So, that
is exactly what I did for my setup, and
today I'll show you how it works, how to
have Fable build one for your workspace,
and how to get the same system running
for you before this pricing window
closes. Let's dive into it.
&gt;&gt; [music]
&gt;&gt; So, what we're looking at right now is
the entirety of the second brain that
Claude Fable 5 made for me. So, I have
files for my business work, I have files
for content because I do a lot of
content, stuff for personal, as well as
for my community. And you can see in
this second brain system, you have these
departments, similar to what you would
expect, let's say, if you were building
out a company second brain. But when I
was building out this system along with
Fable, I actually wanted to make sure
that this system and this visual is
useful as well. Because, let's say
you're using a default tool for graphing
your nodes, your second brain, similar
to what you would expect from something
like Obsidian, which is probably the
most popular one in the market right
now. To me, a data visualization chart
like this isn't really useful if it
doesn't tell you any information about
what you're seeing here. More often than
not, what I'm finding is for people
using Obsidian as their second brain and
this graph view, it is merely just for
show and just for illustrating that you
have these fancy connections in your
notes. But for this version of the
second brain, apart from it just being a
bit more visual and giving me clearer
view of, let's say, how many more files
I have in my business department versus
that of content versus that of my
personal workspace, it also gives me a
clearer view of my entire agentic
operating system. Which, at least for
me, the way I teach it is if you get
these four aspects right, your
applications, your routines, your
memory, as well as your skills, then you
are definitely going to be ahead of 99%
of the users of agentic tools like Cloud
Code. And as always, to make this easy
for you, I've created this PDF guide
that just provides all of the learnings
as well as all of the principles that I
will talk about in this lesson, so that
you can either read through it or
provide it to your Cloud Code and it
will understand how I made this system.
And you can just find this in the link
down below. And so here on the blue
line, you can see which particular
applications I have connected to my
Cloud Code, whether that's via an MCP
connector, an API, or a CLI tool. And
you can see when February 5th meets for
me, it identified that I have it
connected to Google Calendar. I have it
connected to Google Drive, and so on and
so forth. And the reason why that's
important is because this application
view, it gives you visibility on two
things. The first is if you have an
application that you are using
constantly that is not yet in this blue
circle, then that might mean that you
would need to do some work in order to
plug that in to Cloud Code, in order to
automate that tool. And so in principle,
the more nodes that you have in this
application layer, the more powerful
Cloud Code becomes. But that also has a
flip side to it, right? Because the
number of nodes that you have in your
application layer here doesn't only
signify how powerful Cloud Code is, it
also shows the level of trust and
correspondingly, the risk that you would
have when using these agentic platforms.
Because with a lot of these tools, let's
say you're connected to HubSpot for
instance, what that basically means is
that if Cloud Code can connect and
control 100% your HubSpot workspace,
then it'll be able to send emails and
marketing campaigns to your mailing
list, which can be risky by itself if
you don't know what you're doing. And so
the second way by which this application
layer is going to be useful is if
there's an application that you are
actually not using anymore, then it
might be worth disconnecting that to
Cloud Code. And this nice graph view
actually gives you that whole picture so
that that can just quickly eyeball which
particular applications that yourself or
your business or your client would need
to disconnect to. Now, there's the same
principle when it comes to routines.
Because routines, what are those? They
are basically your scheduled tasks that
are running in the background. And I've
talked about this in several other
videos before, but the use of this
yellow area is quite similar to what you
would expect with the applications layer
as well. If you have a lot of routines
set up, then that means that you have a
lot of automation set up. So, it may
mean also that you are saving a lot of
time. However, if you have a lot of
routines in here, and you actually don't
remember anymore you setting this up,
and you actually don't need this
particular automation anymore, then it
might be worth retiring it as well. That
is, at least for me personally, is
running on my Hermes agent, which if you
need a quick reminder of what that does,
you can see that it is connected to this
skill for the daily log skill, that
actually I can open that file directly
from my file explorer here on Windows.
Or if I zoom in here and actually look
at the skill, then I can actually read
the skill and what it contains straight
from this second brain view. And then,
of course, you have your memory layer or
the context that you've built up for
your business over time. So, for me
personally, I have roughly, and I didn't
know this, apparently I already have
35,466
files in this folder, and the Fable was
able to map those out and actually
create relationships between those nodes
and those files. So, now let's say I'm
looking for a particular file, then I
can just fully replace my file explorer
or my finder in order to just find the
specific document that I'm after
straight from within this second brain
system. So, let's say I'm looking for
this document or this photo, which I
already know the file name of and I
don't really need Claude to find it for
me, then it can also show me that and I
can even open it straight from here. And
it will open that on my device. So, you
can see this is just a 5 by 5 grid of
profile photos in there that we can use.
And then, obviously, and the last layer,
which is probably the most important and
most useful, are the skills. So, in this
one view, you have a clear visibility of
what your skills are. And similar to
what I showed before, you can also open
them and see which files or routines
they are connected to. And so, with that
framework, if you're building this for
someone else or for a client, then you
can cleanly and clearly illustrate to
them how their whole agentic operating
system works, how their second brain
system is set up, and what are the
different departments or fields of work
that their current workspace or second
brain is operating against. And you can
even take them through actual files in
here and click through it in order to
expand any of the folders that you may
be interested in. And if it's a
sufficiently good visualization like
this, just like what Cloud Fable did for
us, then I think it is also pretty
useful, right? Because this is probably
a much better way to communicate the
idea of a second brain system and how
your whole workspace looks like versus
just showing literally a folder in your
workspace, which for me, that whole
second brain system, that just
represents all of the files and all of
the folders that I have in this room
workspace. So, if you're taking someone
through their workspace, it is probably
much better and much easier to take them
through those ideas in this view rather
than that folder structure. But no
matter how good or fancy or flashy this
visualization is, I would say that it
only captures around 30% of the value of
a second brain system. Because the other
70% has to do with the day-to-day work
that you ask Cloud to do for you. And
the question you should ask yourself is,
with this second brain system that I'm
implementing, am I actually getting
Cloud to retrieve documents from our
memory, from our second brain, much
faster? And often more importantly, is
it getting those at a lower token cost?
Because if you set up this whole second
brain system, but it either slows you
down or it ends up costing you much more
just to find files in here, then it's
probably not worth setting up. And at
least for me with this system that Fable
has set up, it was able to do those two
things. It was able to retrieve things
faster as well as for cheaper. And I'll
show you how it works and how I guided
Fable to create the system for me in a
bit. But just to show it with a quick
test, what I have here are two Cloud
Code sessions. This one already has that
second brain system implemented, and
this blue one doesn't. So, what I'll do
now is just send these two messages,
these two prompts at the same time. And
then by the end of it, we will see which
of them will get the answer fastest. And
number two, if we are saving tokens
using this second brain system. And
there we go, at least for speed, this
one already has the answer for us, while
the one that is using the default Cloud
Code without that second brain system is
still channeling and thinking through
it, and basically using these default
finders like grep and glob in order to
find your files for you. And when both
of those tasks have finished, what I can
do now is just type in {slash} context
in order to just find out how much
tokens each of these have used. So, the
way to read this, in case this is your
first time seeing it, is that these
system prompts, tools, memory files, and
skills, those are pre-injected on every
session that you start. That's why they
are mostly fixed, as you can see. But
the messages here, this purple area,
that is what Claude actually did in that
session. And you can see for me with
this second brain system, it only took
around 30,000 tokens to get to the
answer, while for the default Claude
Code, it took around 50,000. So, there's
roughly around a 40% savings there,
which is pretty good. I did also ask
Fable to, of course, do a few more tests
just to verify that, and it basically
spun up that same test for default
Claude Code versus the second brain
system that it built, and it's passing
those criteria for each of them. Now,
because each of our workspaces is
actually quite different, so the way
that I use Claude Code and the files and
the folders that I have in that Robo
workspace is probably different versus
yours. So, I think what's most helpful
is if I give you the principles of how
you can guide Fable to create the
perfect second brain for your system.
But in case you're curious, the design
system that it created for me is also
pretty interesting. So, I'll just go to
that for a bit, because basically what
it did is every time I interact with it
or I ask it to retrieve a piece from our
memory, it uses this custom code that it
created called brain.js. Stands for
JavaScript. And if I pull back that
session from earlier, you can see here
that it is invoking that brain.js at the
beginning of this retrieval task. And
what it does after is quite simple.
Let's say we ask it which TTS voice we
use, it essentially just strips down the
keywords there, which is just TTS voice
in this case, and other filler words
like which do we use, those are
discarded. And at this point for all of
these, the reason why it is able to save
and tokens is because this is
deterministic code. So, it's not really
invoking the model in order to all of
these things. Because I have a lot of
indexes and reference maps in my own
workspace, in my own second brain, it
can actually do this where it gives the
possible sources a score without opening
or necessarily reading any of them yet.
And then when it finds the highest
score, basically the file or the
markdown file that has the highest
likelihood where that particular
information is stored, then it opens
that, but it doesn't read the whole
thing. It actually checks if there's a
particular section where that answer may
be obtained. So, it works in multiple
layers in order to just prevent it from
reading irrelevant files. And then it
says here if the section is a pointer to
somewhere else, then the code just
follows that pointer. Again, this is
deterministic code. And then once it has
that answer, it now provides that to the
LLM, which is now the model answers back
to you. But like I said, that's the
system that works for me. It may not
work for you necessarily. And so, the
principle of how you can guide people 5
in order to do this for you is probably
more useful. And the core of it really
is two things. The first one is, I just
prompted Claude Fable 5 to do this /last
30 days skill, which is this skill by
Matt Van Horn, who's the co-founder of
Lyft. And what that does essentially is
it will scour the web across Reddit,
across Twitter, YouTube, Hacker News,
and other several sources in order to
find, at least for this case, the best
practices when it comes to second brain
system. So, I just had it pull and do a
deep research on that information and
use that information as well as scanning
our workspace in order to create that
system for us. The other thing is,
because I'm a bit closer to this space,
I actually know of a few memory
projects, which are these open-source
repositories that I think would be good
resources for Fable. So, if you want to
use these as well, you can just take a
screenshot of this and include that in
your prompt to Fable 5. To give an
example of this QMD project, which I
think stands for Query My Docs, that's
from Tobi, the founder of Shopify, which
essentially just applies the principle
of semantic search to your memory
system. There is this system by Garry
Tan, the CEO of Y Combinator, on what he
uses as his second brain, which he calls
G Brain. And then there is another
open-source repo that is now actually
funded by Y Combinator called Graphify,
that just creates smarter connections
between your files and folders. So, I
just gave all these three to Fable and
to ask it to go through these
repositories, consider them, and build
out the perfect second brain system for
my workspace. And the other helpful
thing when it comes to creating at least
this visual is that you can actually ask
Fable to set a {slash} goal to make sure
that, let's say, if you're changing
layouts in here or you're moving those
around, it can actually check its own
work to make sure that there is no lag
for the user. Similar with every time
that I reload this and it refreshes, I
also set a {slash} goal there in order
to make sure that it loads under 10
seconds and that it should continuously
optimize the whole interface up until it
gets to that point. So, that's just one
way for you to improve, I guess, the
user experience if this visual view is
something that you're after. But there
you go, this is my second brain system.
It is, I think, a good way for you to
use Claude Fable 5 while it's here in
the non-usage based pricing. It's a
really powerful model, and if you're
looking to upgrade your second brain
system and the way that your context and
your memory is set up, then I think you
can offload a lot of that work while
Fable is part of your subscription. And
again, the whole PDF guide of how I set
this up so that you can just give that
to Claude and go through this exercise
yourself as well, you can just find that
in the pinned comment below. But that's
it for this one. As always, thank you
for watching until the end, and I'll see
you all next time. Cheers. [music]
