Building an agentic OS is probably one
of the most over complicated concepts
that I see in the AI space today. People
have really overindexed on things like
building the final dashboard that puts
everything together or this fantasy of
creating the final mission control where
everything just works. But in reality,
the dashboard is actually meaningless
and worthless without all the plumbing
that goes into the system itself. So
everything happening underneath the hood
is the entire [music] game of building a
proper system. I've taught this mental
model so much to companies around the
world that I found the simplest way to
explain this concept in just a few
layers. The same way that the Earth has
multiple layers in its crust, [music]
you have multiple layers in an AIOS
system. And once you understand how
these layers work and the nuances
between them, you'll never get confused
ever again. [music] So, if you're tired
of watching videos that make it seem
like this is rocket science, then this
is for you. And this mental model will
apply to you whether you're building
something for your [music] personal,
your business, or both. Let's dive in.
So to make this as clear as possible,
we'll go through every single layer from
the inside all the way out. And you'll
see a lot of resemblances to the core of
the earth all the way to the outer
surface where the core is more stable
and static and the outside is more
subject to things like weather,
different patterns, forecast that can
change the way that you do business. So
the first layer is identity. And
identity is really what's called the
soul file in a lot of these agent
frameworks like openclaw hermes and any
other agent like it. And then we have
rules and hooks. And these are paradigms
that span across clawed codecs and
pretty much every single language model
with a harness today. And the whole
point of these is offering very strong
suggestions to the AI as to what it
should or shouldn't do in certain
scenarios. And when it comes to hooks,
these are things that are deterministic.
technically the only deterministic parts
of an AIOS system that can fire relative
to specific events that happen. And then
we have the skills layer where this is
the one that most people fully
understand where you have some form of
process or workflow. And if you do the
exact same workflow in similar ways over
and over again, but it's still not fully
deterministic, then it can deserve to be
a slash command and a skill. And once
you felt like you've mastered skills and
you keep iterating on them to make them
infinitely better, you might decide that
it's time to employ some materialized or
crystallized agents where you have a
designated set of rules and
responsibilities for tasks that have
evolved beyond things like skills. And
last but not least, we go to the tools,
MCPs, and CLI where now you have a
system. You might have primed your
context. You have your identity of what
the system is for. Is it for
bookkeeping? Is it for your law
practice? Is it for your personal taxes?
It could be anything you want. Myself, I
now have 20 different command centers.
Each of which is meant to have this
domain subject matter expertise that is
composed of these five different layers.
Now, there's one element to all of these
that I've yet to mention, which is what
I call the rot rate. And the rot rate is
really the pace at which that specific
piece of context has an expiration date.
Because you could build the absolute
perfect AIOS for whatever domain today,
but in one month, 90 days, 180 days, let
alone a year, it might be fully
obsolete. So, you have to have systems
in place to both detect and remedy any
of these issues. So, to give a visual
layer to this problem, imagine that we
played out your AIOS over the course of
a year. You'll notice that things like
maybe the way you use your tools, MCPs,
CLIs, the agents instructions, the
skills they use, and even your identity
will need to be updated over time
because they will become deprecated,
obsolete, out ofd, and that will poison
the context window of whatever language
model you choose. So based on this,
let's take a fine tooth comb through
every layer. And I'll also provide you
some examples of operating systems that
I've built as well. When it comes to the
soul, this could be a physical soul file
for your agent of choice or it could be
an agents.md file or a cloud MD file if
you're using cloud code. Now again, the
identity or the soul layer is meant to
be one of the most static layers where
you don't update it as often and it's
meant to have an upfront cost that's a
bit higher than the other layers. But
with that upfront cost, you only have to
do slight modifications over time. Now
this could be composed of a physical
file called soul.md for your agents like
Hermes, openclaw etc. or it could be
something like an agents MD file or a
cloud MD file if you're using something
like cloud code. And in all of them a
lot of these files will be composed of
very similar characteristics. Number
one, the identity, the personality, the
way of working, the way of simplifying
or over complicating an entire session
with you the user. So, if you're talking
about very complicated legal concepts
and you always want your agent to break
it down in a very easy to understand
way, you might have this as a oneliner,
explain everything at 7th grade reading
levels for the very complex concepts I
will ask you about. And the way that I
use this layer is this becomes my
inventory and pointer layer. And when I
say pointer, it means that I will use my
cloud MD file to point at all of the
relevant rules, the relevant skills, and
I just basically have a very short
sentence, maybe a series of 20, 30
sentences saying when we're doing XYZ,
refer to these documents. Because I'm
loading a very lean and mean Claude MD
into every single one of my sessions, I
can guarantee that all the core
references it needs to be powerful and
effective irrespective of whatever model
I choose. It could even be an open-
source model. It will know exactly where
to refer to. When it comes to rules and
hooks, this is not only one of the
simplest layers, but it's also the one
that you rarely will start with because
you might not know the exact behaviors
from the language model that you need to
contain or create road maps around or
SOPs until you run into issues. Let me
give you an example. Let's say you were
building yourself a business coach where
it was trained on a compendium of files
of all the relevant influencers
information that you find helpful to
help you take your business to the next
level. It's only when you start
interacting with said coach and it's
giving you extremely generic advice or
advice that's not localized to where
your business lies is when you realize
ah we should have a rule that says only
give me feedback in this way or about
said topic or at this level of
granularity. And you know what? Anytime
I want to push my changes to something
like GitHub, I want to make sure that
there's never any form of personal
identifiable information. So then this
is when you start employing a hook which
is deterministic. It's attached and it's
tethered to a specific event which in
this case would be pushing and using the
tool of GitHub. And by the way, if
you're enjoying the content and you find
it clear and tactical, this is only a
glimpse of everything that I offer
exclusively in my early AI adopters
community. We have something called the
claude code living course that I update
every single week with a brand new
module that you'll never see on YouTube.
Just for this topic on AIOS engineering,
I have close to a one-hour master class
that [music] goes infinitely deeper on
all the nuances in building these kind
of systems. So, if you want access to
resources like that on top of things
like our clawed claw system that has
gone through eight different generations
of updates and [music] our new
enterprise OS system, then check out the
first link down below and I'll see you
inside. All right, back to the video.
When it comes to something like skills,
people love building them, but they hate
maintaining them. So, the core rules of
thumb here is to imagine a skill as a
specific workflow that you've done maybe
5, 10, 15 times in ever so slightly
similar ways, but typically they have
some form of human in the loop element
where you want to be involved as a part
of the process. So, these are what I
call processoriented skills, which are
different from other skills. Let's say
creating a skill to connect to your
Fathom or your Fireflies to pull the
latest transcript from all your
meetings. That would be more of a
functional skill, something that
connects to an existing API and there's
not a lot of nuance in what it has to
do. This layer has a moderate rot rate
where you will be updating or you should
be updating a skill almost weekly, even
if you've had it for months. Up until
now, I have skills that I still change
ever so slightly every single day,
especially as I start pushing them and
employing them on edge cases,
irrespective of whatever it is I'm
working on. And one of the many reasons
why this will rot over time is as we get
smarter models, sometimes some models
need way less instruction to get to the
exact same outcome with way less tokens.
And at the same time, let's say you
start pivoting to open- source models
and having a hybrid model where you use
an orchestrator that's closed source,
let's say Opus, Fable, if it ever comes
back out again or something else. And
then you have executor agents that are
all using open- source models like GLM,
DeepSeek, etc. At that point, you might
still need a lot of instruction for
those models to follow and execute said
skills. So you might eventually have
different versions of the same skill
that might work with different versions
of language models. And one expert tip
is if you want to continually improve
your skills in a very efficient way, you
could run something like slashgoal and
with that goal basically tell it, I want
to optimize it based on the latest and
greatest best practices. So if we were
to hop into a terminal real quick, it
would look something like this where you
would say /goal I want you to optimize
Xkill in Yway according to the best
practices as of today. And then if
you're using cloud code then I like to
do this thing like CC as if you're CCing
someone on email. And then I will tag
the clawed code guide agent because what
will happen is it will use and fetch all
the relevant documents to make sure that
your skill is as optimized as it
possibly can be. And if you want to take
it to the next level and you want to
make sure this happens without you even
at the computer, you could do a slash
schedule where every single week you
have a process that ever so slightly
prunes and optimizes every single skill
that you have. And you can give it a
rubric of criteria to decide what is
worth updating versus what is worth
maintaining. And naturally, you want to
keep some logs to track all of these
changes over time just in case it makes
a change on your behalf that doesn't
make it fire as well as it used to. Now,
the same way that a skill is adjacent to
a verb, an agent is adjacent to a role.
So, once your skills seem to now create
this aggregate overall person equivalent
of a role, it makes sense to hire quote
unquote an agent. And the way you do it,
if you want to create materialized
agents that are really detailed and
things that you maintain over time, you
want to decide as if you're a
bootstrapped startup founder with no
venture capital cash to throw at you.
What is the best absolute first hire
that you can have? And how far can you
push this first hire agent before it
makes sense to add another role? A lot
of people get excited by the concept and
the whimsy of having an army of agents,
but they don't realize that having an
army of agents is more of a maintenance
nightmare than it is a blessing. So,
let's say you create an agent that is
taxoriented and you call it tax
optimizer and its specific role is a
senior tax strategist. So you basically
have it scan all your transactions in
the business. Maybe it liazes and double
checks what region you're operating in
and where can you actually save on tax
and write things off legally in a way
that you can lower your cost basis
within this agent. Now that you have
your infrastructure that you've built of
skills, you tell it, I want you to do
all of these roles and responsibilities
and when it comes to bookkeeping and
checking my tax structure, I want you to
employ and use these skills in said way.
Just in this example, hopefully you can
see that this is very additive. If you
had built agents without the skill
infrastructure or the identity
infrastructure and everything around it,
these become a lot more frail and
brittle. One last thing on this layer is
that it rots at one of the fastest rates
compared to the others. And the main
reason is as we have brand new model
releases, with each model, we get ever
so slightly or sometimes vastly
different behavior. when you have
different behavior that culminates in
different ways that you have to prompt
it to get to the same outcome or better.
Meaning that the prompt that you write
today will become obsolete or dated as
soon as a new version of the model
you're using comes out. And if you work
with things like codeex and claude code
interchangeably like I do, you'll have
to create a set of instructions that are
as nuanced and neutral kind of
Switzerland between both models
behaviors as much as possible to make
sure that it can fire the same way on
both models. The last layer is the tools
API MCP and CLI layer. And I know
there's a lot of acronyms there, but all
of them point to the same thing, which
is that this is the data layer. This is
where you enrich your process with live
access to information which could be
access to databases where you're pulling
in information where you're writing and
reading. Let's say a CRM, a HubSpot,
[snorts]
a QuickBooks. If we take that prior
example, you would need something like a
QuickBooks to go and pull all of your
invoices, your accounting information.
Maybe you somehow marry that with
conversations that you've had with
clients on something like Fathom or
Fireflies to pull in the fact you have
to write a proposal. They have to
document that proposal. And this becomes
a system that needs logic, an identity,
a set of skills, maybe some agents, and
finally that final layer that brings
everything together and writes it to
your CRM of choice. And one of the
reasons why I tagged this as potentially
not necessarily having one of the
highest rot rates is as these APIs
change, as they become deprecated,
you're going to have to quickly pivot
your entire system to adapt to the best
way to pull that data in what way is
being pulled. Because sometimes the data
structure, the way you pull that
information changes ever so slightly.
Maybe the provider is providing some way
to have more efficient gains in latency,
in fluency, etc. So, you'll always have
to look out for what's happening with
this layer. And a prime example of this
is that a few years ago, MCPs were the
darling of AI. They were everything
people could talk about. If you didn't
have an MCP, you were not relevant to
the conversation. Now, it appears that
MCPs are on their way out. Some
providers don't show their API and only
show their MCP layer for whatever
reason, but for the most part, command
line interfaces have become one of the
more popular tools just because they're
a wrapper around the API, but they're a
very command line interface friendly
wrapper given that codecs and cloud code
really deliver in that domain. So to
make this tactical instead of just
theoretical, let's look at two tangible
examples. So let's say we have a my OS
system and the whole point of my OS
system is a pseudo mini CFO for my
business. Just for all intents and
purposes, you could just to give
yourself the training wheel structure
number and name each folder by that
layer in your AIOS layers.
Realistically, these rules and hooks
should and will live in something like
Claude where it hosts your hooks, your
workflows, and everything else. But if
it helps you initially simplify the
mental model, you can put these in
separate folders and then once you've
materialized and finalized them, then
you can graduate them to end up in the
core.cloud folder where you know you
have an inventory of all these assets.
Now, naturally, we have a lot of assets
here. So, let's put some color as to
what's happening underneath the hood. If
we flip over, you'll see that our
general structure is composed of the
folders that you saw before. And we have
a substrate.wiki file. This is meant to
build on top of the work of Andre
Carpathy that basically built a second
brain library that you can tap into. And
I have a prompts folder. Now, this
folder is specific for you to give you
two options on ways to interview
yourself to build a similar structure
and approach to building each one of
these layers. The claud is the nucleus
of the entire system and it contains
thing like the rule and responsibility
which is the solo fractional CFO, the
point of view which is to focus on
things like cash flow, profit and loss,
the fact that it should never blend or
compare any two clients in the client
folders and it points to different
playbook files, additional files of
context that I don't want to bloat my
context window and my claude MD with.
Then we have the rules and hooks layer
where we have the always.mmarkdown file
that contains nine rules on how to
handle things like our finances and a
never.md. Again, I'm simplifying the
naming just to understand. Eight things
to avoid and never do. Again, never
blending clients and never outsourcing
certain numbers that haven't been fully
validated. And examples of hooks you
could have are basically double-checking
that before you send off any work to a
client that you're double-checking that
the data is coming from that exact
client name in the database and that
there's no confusion and maybe some
level of PII guard to make sure that
there are no names, emails, etc. in
whatever is leaving either your email,
your GitHub repo, etc. And when it comes
to skills, you'll have ones like monthly
close, which will go through all of the
clients that you service as a fractional
CFO and close on their income
statements, cash flow statements,
everything for the month, and draft them
a report. And then you have the singular
agent, which is called client portfolio
markdown file, which is an overall
strategist. And then you start drafting
what the next agent could be, but you
also outline criteria as to when it
makes sense to hire said agent depending
on circumstance. And on top of that, one
file that people never create that I
recommend you actually think about is
creating a rot file. And if I open this
up in Sublime Text here, you'll see how
it's composed. It basically structures
and tells Claude code, and you can store
this as a pointer in your CloudMD at
which rate you expect each layer to rot.
And it's a lot easier to do this right
after you've built the 80% or you've
built V0ero versus a couple months down
the line where you've kind of be
comfortable, maybe not as proactive with
building this to be as maintainable as
possible. Now, one thing I didn't touch
on in this video is that these layers
will rot at different rates for
different businesses in different
industries. So you will have to be the
judge of how often this thing called
identity needs to change. How often your
connection to some system or service
will have to be updated or looked at.
Now, like I said, I have another set of
files in here in this prompts folder
that I'm going to make available to you
in the second link down below on top of
a few other goodies to get you started
on this journey or to help you improve
what you already have. We have prompt A,
the more simple one, and prompt B, which
is more akin to helping you with
workflows. So if we open prompt a
naturally I'm not going to read this
whole thing. AI helped me generate it
based on a lot of the lessons that I've
been teaching and the lessons that I've
learned personally. So basically if we
just zoom in a bit more it says you are
an agentic OS architect. I want to set
up a simple personal agentic operating
system inside cloud code or the language
model that you're using in this folder
and I want you to walk me through it
start to finish. Read all of these
instructions. So, it will break down all
of the layers that I've mentioned to you
here over here. And then it will explain
exactly how they interlink. If you want
to include a wiki, an obsidian second
brain, you could tap into that as well.
And it will go through all the steps.
So, it will ask you what is the file
path we're going to be building this
operating system in. Then, interview me.
Go through and ask me what is my role?
Who do I serve? What is my point of
view? And it should be as relevant as
possible to your specific business. And
it will offer you in step two paths, two
different ways that you could build your
operating system. And it will create a
blueprint file, an operating system
blueprint file. And just to give you a
little preview of that, if we zoom in
and we take this to the side here, it
will basically break down and say
revisit my changes at this date because
maybe it's interlin with a rawm file.
And then as you scroll down, it will
walk through and break down exactly
every single layer, what should be in
there. And then once you give this to
Claude code in a brand new session, it
should be able to use it as a blueprint
and fully create a draft of your entire
system end to end. Now will it build it
perfectly and blow your mind the first
time it attempts this? Absolutely not.
But the whole point of these systems is
that they are infinite games. They are
things that you keep iterating on over
and over again. So the same way you
sharpen a sword, the moment you build an
operating system, you're on the hook to
maintain it and make sure it's always up
to date. So that was a business example.
Let me drive the point home by showing
you a personal example. This is my
health operating system and this is
something that I built in public in
front of my community for 15 days. And
the goal was to build my own what I call
a cla agent. Basically think of Hermes
but better and uses your claw
subscription. And I make it tailored to
be my health coach. So it's aware of all
of my DNA structure. It's aware of all
of my blood panels. It's aware of my
tendencies, my issues in the past,
everything that it needs to help me
focus on an ideal diet, an ideal
exercise regimen, etc. And you'll notice
here that we don't have numbered and
named folders like we did with the demo
example because as soon as you get the
handle of it, you now have the training
wheels off and you can start building
operating systems with the general
structure in mind. So here we have the
extracted data from our raw documents.
So these raw documents are my PDFs of
all of my blood panels, all of my DNA
analysis results, etc. And then we have
the extraction piece that basically
takes these PDFs and converts them into
easy to read for an LLM markdown files.
And then we have the data layer, which
is the superbase that maintains every
single thing that I eat. Now, my synced
Whoop data via API every single morning.
Anything you can imagine is stored in
that superbase to help reinforce and
inject in memory. So, I can have back
and forths with a pseudo personal
trainer. And the result is a system
where I can take pictures of food that I
eat. I can voice note exercises that
I've done. I can take a video of what
I'm attempting to eat or do or in the
shopping aisle, and it will give me
fully tailored advice to everything
related to me, my last seven days of
performance, sleep. If we pop into our
little dashboard here, on top of the
operating system, I have my goals in
terms of weight, sleep, structure,
protein to sodium to carbohydrates. You
can make these operating systems very
potent with only a few folders. The only
thing you need to make these
increasingly more sophisticated is the
mental model of understanding what are
we solving for? What is the subject
matter expertise that we need to make
this agent which is pulling from average
training data specialized in one
specific domain? And one last thing to
note is whether we're talking about
personal or even enterprise, this globe
looks very similar. It might not be
called identity, but it would be called
data landscape. It won't be called
necessarily rules and hooks, but it
could be tool access in general,
especially if there's some IT red tape
in the mix. Then you have agentic
systems in general versus just a
markdown file. Then you have specific
client software and overall operational
systems. So this paradigm of the
different layers and crusts of an
operating system can apply to different
domains either personal, small business
or enterprise. So hopefully that
breakdown with the visual aid with the
examples show you that this is not very
complicated. It's not rocket science.
It's actually more of an art with the
guard rails of science, which is
understanding what is it that you need?
How do you create that type of asset?
How do you make sure you optimize that
type of asset? But there's no one
specific blueprint that applies to every
single operating system like a lot of
other creators are advertising. In a
way, my operating system for health or
finance or tax will be different from
yours because the way we do things and
the way we structure our businesses and
the systems they talk to and the way we
want them to deliver assets will be
special snowflake assets. So, if this
walkthrough helped break down some
limiting beliefs that you can do it, I
can tell you that you can do 80% in a
weekend of this setup and then you'll
spend the next weeks to maybe a couple
months perfecting the system to a point
where it is additive enough that it
actually helps move the needle and
delivers tangible outcomes. And like I
said, I'm going to make available to you
a care package of a couple prompts to
get you on the journey or to optimize
your existing one along with some other
goodies in the second link for free down
below. And if you found this helpful and
you want to nerd out and go down the
rabbit hole, I have almost a 1-hour
addition to this YouTube video on top of
some specific skills, my Claude Claw
system that you can clone yourself and
build through something like Telegram or
Slack or Discord on top of everything
else we offer in the community. [music]
So, if you want to check that out and
you really serious about harnessing and
honing your operating system, check the
first link down below and maybe I'll see
you inside. And for the rest of you, if
you found this clear and helpful, I'd
super appreciate a like on the video, a
comment if you so choose, and I'll see
you in the next
