So, what you're looking at right now is
something that I practically use every
single day to run my business. And this
is one small element that's called the
hive mind, which is essentially a shared
memory state of my ever-growing team of
agents. Each set of agents correspond to
different parts of my digital brain, and
each one of these little nodes here
represent tasks that they've completed.
So, if I want an overview of the overall
activity of all my agents and all the
knowledge that they know about each
other, this is one of the many ways I
can represent that. Now, if I want
something more on the 2D side, something
very similar to Obsidian's graph view,
then we have this portion where we can
filter on specific agents, and then we
can even search specific tasks. So, if I
search something related to Gmail,
you'll see every single node that
remains that represents a task where
Gmail was executed. And if I wanted a
list view, I could go through this
entire table and see each and every
action of every single agent in the same
place. Now, let's say I was feeling
particularly introverted today, and I
wanted to have the equivalent of an MSN
group chat with all of my agents. I can
go to this specific section called my
war room, and instead of using my voice,
I could put on my headphones and go
straight to the chat room. And when I
click on text meeting right here, and we
click through, this will open up a brand
new chat room where I can use all of my
specific commands to have stand-ups and
discussions with all of my agents. So,
all I have to do is I can go into maybe
small mode or large mode if I want to be
able to see every single agent at my
left-hand sidebar, as well as a status
that shows their last completed task.
And I can go to the very bottom here,
and I can do {slash} stand-up, and I can
either tag specific agents to give me
the status report, or I can have them
all tell me what they've done in tandem.
So, if I just send this specific command
right here, each one of my agents will
be invoked, it will go through its
associated database and set of memories
to tell me exactly what it's been in the
last 24 hours. And you can see each one
of them goes through and gives me a very
succinct status report ending with our
meta agent. So, we have the research
agent chime in and tell me that this
part of the YouTube space might be a
little bit saturated. Then we have
Comms, who is my designated content
agent, the one I probably want to listen
to the most. But each one will chime in,
the main agent will kind of look at the
other responses and give me the cohesive
response on behalf of the rest. So, with
just a few prompts and slash commands,
you can have your own LLM council at
your fingertips. Now, big picture, I
want to be very clear about what this
video is. It's not meant to be a
step-by-step walk-through on exactly how
you can go from absolutely zero to this.
And the reason is this takes hundreds of
hours to start, iterate, and refine.
It's meant to show you what's possible,
how you can get there, and most
importantly, how to break down this very
opaque concept of this AI operating
system. Whatever the term of the day is,
this is purely a data organization
exercise with some layers on top. So, in
the next 20-ish minutes, my goal is to
show you what I use this for day in and
day out, how you can set it up for
yourself, and most importantly, breaking
down this very opaque concept of the AI
operating system into the simplest terms
so you can finally understand it and
implement it on your own. Whether you
want to use Claude Code, Codex, or even
both, you'll be able to apply all the
principles I'm about to show you to
whatever LLM you want. Let's get into
it. And before we deep dive into every
bell and whistle that this system has to
offer, it's important to level set for
anyone that's new here or hasn't watched
my prior videos on this. A few months
ago, I was quickly jaded with what open
claw could and couldn't do, and all I
wanted was an easy way to connect my
existing Claude Code subscription to my
existing Claude Code ecosystem and
connect them together. And I went from
wanting to creating a way where you
could use a bridge called the Anthropic
SDK and connecting it to your Cloud Code
system, so any skill, any project, any
plugin was accessible through my
Telegram interface. And I went from
interacting with one singular agent to a
team of agents to creating a war room
where I had an experimental feature to
go back and forth using my voice. And
now I've evolved this hive mind to allow
me to interact with all of these
specialized knowledge, the subject
matter expertise of every single
employee in my workforce. And the best
part of this system is because my Cloud
Code is already connected to all of
these services through various CLIs,
integrations, and skills, all of my
agents inherit this existing
infrastructure. Now, let's make this
practical by walking you through one
actual business case. So, let's say I
have a meta agent. And this is something
that I've been experimenting with
recently. I'm a novice when it comes to
meta ads, so I wanted the power of Cloud
Code to connect to services like the
meta command line interface, which is a
brand new way to look at, track, and
understand ad performance. Behind the
scenes, it has a set of instructions
walking you through exactly what its
role is and how to interact with all of
these services. And underneath the hood,
this is how it works. When I ask it a
question, it will go and proactively
search the meta ads command line
interface. This is a fancy way for Cloud
Code to go and investigate the entire
API and see every single part of a
campaign, ad spend, ROAS, and a bunch of
other words that up until a week or two
ago I had no idea how to actually apply.
And then because I want the information
distilled and portrayed in a very
specific way to be displayed on my
mobile device, I create a meta ads
skill. And this basically creates a
custom report. Once this skill exists
globally, every single one of my agents
automatically inherits it. And because
of this, I can now create a scheduled
task that will send me a ping every
morning at 7:30 a.m. of a full summary
of ad performance. And if I wanted to go
back and forth with my agent and get to
the bottom of which ad is working, are
any working, do I have to create some
brand new creative, I could also task it
with creating that creative using the
Gemini skill to use something like Nano
banana to create the creative, add the
creative, add some money, put some spend
on it, and see how it performs. And this
is one small microcosm of every single
task that I give my set of agents so I
can focus on the things that matter. And
this is what it actually looks like. So
today I got this report. It breaks down
the spend, the actions, a couple blind
spots that I might have, and each one of
these hyperlinks right here link to the
direct ad that it's referring to. And
again, because this is more than just a
reporting tool, it can give me a quick
take at the bottom here, tell me if I
have a winner, a loser, what I'm doing
wrong, and how X is affecting Y in a way
that I might not know out of the box.
Now, in a similar fashion, I'm going to
go through the relevant tabs that you
might want to adapt to your own system
and show you one, how it works
tactically, and underneath the hood,
what's involved to make that happen. So
this mission control dashboard is meant
to be a glorified Kanban where you have
all of your agents in one place. You can
spy and see if any tasks are happening
in parallel real time. And you can
switch the layout as you wish, and you
can always create a new task and drag
and drop it to the agent of your choice.
And if you don't want the cognitive load
of deciding which agent should take this
specific task, you can always do an auto
assign. So in this case, if we take this
task, which is purely sending Mark a
message saying hi, you can click on auto
assign, and then this will use Gemini
underneath the hood using the cheapest
model from Gemini, which is
inconsequential from a cost perspective,
to tell you which agent is best geared
for this. And naturally, it chooses the
comms agent. So this will now be queued
and then sent over, and within seconds
to a minute, depending on on size of the
task and the length of the task, it will
be executed and you can follow up on
Telegram. And by the way, if you wanted
to swap Telegram for Slack or Discord,
you can do that. You just have to set up
the connection and make sure it's
stable. And within seconds, the system
gets pinged that there's a cute task, it
starts running, and then it should
execute until it's completed. And by the
way, as usual, I'm going to give you a
series of resources to help you reverse
engineer as much as I'm showing here as
possible. But if you want my carbon copy
system that I keep on updating every
single week with brand new features,
adjustments, and everything needed to
make this awesome, then you'll want to
check out the first link in the
description below. Not only do you get
access to this current version of
CloudClaw, but we're working on multiple
versions, one for enterprise and
eventually for local. And on top of
that, you get access to myself, my team
of coaches, as well as the Cloud Code
Magic Course, which is our living course
for anything related to Cloud Code. If
that sounds interesting to you, then
description below, and let's get back to
the video. And because of my Comms agent
is a subject matter expert at anything
related to communication, including my
email, my Outlook, my LinkedIn, etc., it
knows that for Gmail to use the Google
Workspace command line interface, which
is already a part of my Cloud Code
system, and leverage it to draft this
email. Now, if we take a peek behind the
curtain, all that's happening is that we
have a series of tasks here, and I'm
using the Gemini skill using the
absolute cheapest model, Gemini 3 Flash,
to take all the tasks and auto assign it
with a very basic system prompts. And
the system prompt is dynamic. Based on
all the agents that we have, go and
decide what is the best geared agent,
and here's a description of all of the
agents. So then Gemini classifies it, it
adds it to the queue, and then the
system gets pinged like you saw, it
starts running, and once it's done, we
have completion. And the hardest part of
the mission control is making sure to
remember that the front end should
always have a perfect symbiosis with the
back end, so that when you have a task
on screen, that propagates to something
like your Telegram API, your different
APIs are being used, and making sure
that this whole system is cohesive. Now,
the schedule tab is very
straightforward. It purely creates what
are called cron jobs, and these are
scheduled jobs that run on your computer
locally, and even if you host it on a
VPS or a cloud provider, you can
schedule it from there as well. And if
we click on something like this schedule
task for our Meta Ads CLI, you could see
we could just add a time from here
really easily. We could say every
weekday, every weekend, custom, and
anything like an edit and or a make.com
experience, this is the exact same
thing. The trick with this one is if you
want the front end to be very
straightforward, this is what cron looks
like underneath the hood. It's a series
of numbers and characters that denote
things like cadence, frequency, day,
year, etc. You don't want to see that as
a front end user. So, the only thing you
would want to tell Claude code is
instead of showing me this raw input,
show me the equivalent raw input as
English or French or whatever language
that it is that you speak. Now, the
agents tab acts as the command center
for all of your existing and brand new
agents. For your existing ones, you can
switch the model right here, assuming
you're using Claude code and you're
using your existing Claude code
subscription, you can switch the model
and this will propagate, fancy word for
automatically update, anywhere else that
this is used. If you want to change the
personality, if you want to change the
task list, if you want to tell it to
focus on this skill versus that, one,
you could just tell it through Telegram,
or you could just write it directly
through here. And you can always stop
your agents, delete them, restart them,
and I even added a feature that you
might want to steal from me, which is
having suggestions on agents that
deserve to exist that don't. And a good
way of doing this is you would have some
language model. In my case, I don't want
to sacrifice my precious Claude code
tokens, so I will put my Gemini 3 flash
API on the front lines to look through
all of my conversations, scan through
and see what agents am I overburdening.
And in this case, you can see that Comms
is doing way more than it should. It's
handling WhatsApp, it's handling school,
it's handling mail, it's handling every
single thing you can imagine. So, maybe
it makes sense to have another agent
that's called email manager. And the
best part is, if you want to create a
new agent, you should design it. So,
when you click on new agent, it lets you
just write the name, the display name,
the description, and it gives you the
link to the bot token. So, all you have
to do is go to Telegram, create a brand
new bot, you take the existing token,
you copy and paste it into your front
end, and then you should be able to
activate and ping it from here. And
underneath the hood, you can add way
more sophistication than I do, but every
single agent is purely a Claude MD file
and what's called a YAML file. This is a
breakdown of its configuration. You
could add its own specific rules and
skills completely specific to this
agent, or you can keep it nice and
minimalistic and just layer on top of
your existing global skills in your
system. And when it comes to the
suggestions feature, like I said, all
it's doing is looking at your usage over
time, looking for really used and abused
agents, looking through your
conversations, and looking for patterns,
just using pure natural language.
Because when you use things like the
Gemini models, you have enormous context
windows, very cheap inference, so you
can afford to take entire JSON files of
your conversations and automatically
have that sift through and decide what
makes the most sense. When it comes to
the chat tab, this is just designed to
have all of your communication
centralized in one place. So, if you
want to keep tabs, literally, on all of
your agents and see all your
conversation history with them, and
continue the conversation at the very
bottom of here, like you can write
status update, what's next, you can type
whatever message you want, you can just
say hi, and behind the scenes, it will
still use your existing harness, your
existing subscription, just from this
online portal. And assuming you use this
with multiple platforms, this can help
distill all of those conversations into
one unified view. Now, when it comes to
memory systems, everyone has an opinion
as to what is the best. And I even
dropped a video a few weeks ago walking
through the different levels of memory,
so you can decide for yourself what
makes the most sense for yourself, your
business, and your day-to-day. In my
memory world, I have five to six
different layers, and these layers
really roll up to these three
categories, which are importance,
salience, and recency. And the one thing
that I can do in this blurred memories
tab is I can write something like, let's
say, Gmail, and this will show any
memory related to that. So, you can make
your memory palace searchable, which
when it comes to memory, it's beyond
just throwing a vector database and
throwing everything in there and just
expecting it to work because memory is
not just about the setup, but it's also
about maintenance. And one additional
thing that you can do is you can create
insights on your memory, so you can
have, again, a language model, a cheap
workhorse, take a look and scan through
your memories and derive insights about
you, things that you don't know about
yourself. And this would be the
equivalent of doing {slash} insights in
Claude Code to get the full breakdown of
all the pros and cons of how you've been
using it over the last 30 days. Now,
I've covered the entire deep dive of how
I've structured memory in a prior
version of this video, but the TLDR is
this. You want Claude Code to interview
you on how you want to deal with fresh
memories and how you want to deal with
fading memories and important memories.
Do you want important memories to be
pinned forever? Do you want memories
that fade to fade into nonexistence, or
do you want them to be stored somewhere?
And when it comes to the semantics of
the system, pun intended, you have
different factors that you'd want to
consider. One of them, like I said, is
salience, which is a fancy word for the
importance of a memory and whether you
want to create your own embeddings. Now,
the beauty of a system like this is that
you can have it run on an online
database, something like a Superbase, a
neon, or like myself, all of this is
contained in a local SQLite database.
So, each and every part from who the
agents are to all the conversations, to
all the scheduled tasks, to all of my
memories, to everything in the hive mind
is all stored for free on my local
database. So, the sky's the limit and
you can make this work irrespective of
the platform of your choice. To help you
build and design your own memory system,
I'm going to give you my memory skill on
top of a series of other things that you
can use to interview yourself and have
Claude Code build that system for you.
Now, when it comes to the holy grail of
the hive mind, this 3D version and the
2D version really are based on the
foundation of the list view. If the list
view is actually working and the list
view is operational and all the agents
are logging in real time and all of the
database is set up, everything else is
just additive. So, once you set up the
boring stuff and you make sure that this
table is always populated and it's
populated with the latest and greatest
summaries of what that agent is doing,
you can always layer on the 2D version
or the 3D version, whatever it makes the
most sense for you. And when it comes to
implementing these more fancy features
that are easy on the eye, but tricky on
the back end, this is my mental model of
how I create them. So, in this case, I
was inspired to create for myself the
very thing that I really like about
Obsidian, which is this graph view
where, if you're not familiar, each one
of these bullets denotes a project, a
task, or something similar. So, all I
did was actually screen record using
Loom, you could use things like Tella,
whatever screen recording of your
choice, and I went through and I told it
I basically just spoke freestyle. This
is what I love about the Obsidian graph
view. I just wish that I could create it
in a way that really synchronizes in
real time to what my agents are doing.
And then all I did was I hooked up to my
Claude Code system this skill, which is
the Gemini skill, and as a part of this
skill, if you zoom in here, one of them
is processing video through their video
understanding API. So, all I did is take
the Loom, download it, drag and drop the
file path, and I said, "Hey, I want to
build this, but I want it to integrate
into my mission control in this way."
And one added thing is depending on your
system, this 3D version, again, looks
beautiful, but it uses a lot of
resources. So, if you don't have the
best of computers, then the 2D version
is the most efficient. Now, ending off
with the beloved war room, in my last
video, I walked through at length on how
I designed this voice and live meetings
capability. The voice being the part
where I can launch the specific room, it
plays a beautiful tune behind the
scenes, and allows me to interact with
all my agents synchronously. And I went
from just having the ability to speak to
my agents in this way, to now having the
ability to go back to the war room, go
to the picker, and then I can select who
should always be in our stand-ups when
we do our daily meetings. And the way I
designed this theoretically is very
simple. I wanted to not only always have
a synchronized list of my latest and
greatest agents, and I also wanted to
have a list of their latest and greatest
tasks according to the hive mind, but I
also wanted to create a special set of
slash commands specific to this room.
And a couple of them you already saw,
one of them is {slash} stand-up, and one
of them is {slash} discuss, but I can
also pin an agent so that they lead
every single reply. So, if you want to
have your council meeting, but you want
to designate one specific agent as the
core leader of this meeting, then you
can do so. And then everything else is
just clearing the agent history, and the
hardest part of this is making sure that
when you have this conversation, each
agent is aware of the last response and
the overall context. And luckily, I'm
not a rocket scientist, I just asked
Claude code, "Can you find a way that in
this specific ecosystem of the war room,
that we can have this conversation, and
it all has context on all of the other
replies as well as their underlying
Cloud MDs, YAML files, etc. And on top
of that, if you played around with
things like custom GPTs back in the day,
then you'd remember you could tag
specific GPTs. In the exact same manner,
if I want to talk to my content agent
and ask it, "Give me advice for creating
a good video on a Claude claw system for
YouTube." This will automatically tag
that specific agent. And then again,
these are small things, but everything
is iterative and everything is additive.
So, the core question to ask yourself is
what is the 80/20 for you in terms of
features that actually drive business
value and derive ROI versus something
that's purely a novelty. And behind the
scenes, the stand-up and discuss {slash}
commands are purely pinging this
non-visible prompt to you and I that's
basically telling them, "Give me a
status report on what you've done
according to your entries in the hive
mind as of the last 24 hours." So, this
is really where you see the entire
system coming together and acting
cohesively. All right, so now that you
have an understanding of how my system
works, I want to walk through this
paradigm of the AIOS so you can fully
understand it and see how it plays into
what I've shown you thus far. Now, the
main thing I'd say about the system is
that all of this top layer here, the
part where you have the fancy dashboard
that I showed you, all the functionality
and features, all of that is cute. But,
the part that really matters, the
foundational layer, is this bottom
layer. How is your data organized? If
your back of house is organized, then
everything else is purely a cherry on
top. So, if your system looks like this
when you open up your desktop and you
have files and folders all over the
place of different file types and sizes,
and you expect that even taking my
carbon copy system and layering it on
top of this will give you something very
powerful, you'd be wrong. The art of
making this work is really the art of
just being hygienic with your files,
your skills, and deciding very
proactively what deserves to be a global
skill and what deserves to be a project
level skill. And again, skills are
universal, whether it's Codex, Claude,
or Gemini. And beyond that, it really
just comes down to the different skills,
rules, and command line interfaces, and
integrations they make available to your
existing OS. And when it comes to the
agents, the skills, and the Claude MDs,
you again just have to decide what
deserves to graduate or be promoted to a
global skill that every single agent
should have access to versus what should
I pigeonhole, make specific to one
particular terminal, agent, or project.
And once you have this bottom layer
figured out, everything else is easier.
You would just add on some form of
memory. You would decide what kind of
database makes the most sense for me. Do
I care about scheduling? Do I care about
specific agents? Do I want specific
skills for these agents? Or do I purely
want to just build on the existing
skills in my system? Once you make those
decisions, the last part is how would
you like to interact with your system on
the go? In my case, it's Telegram
because the blast radius of my business
and my business contacts and my personal
life is zero. In your case, it could be
Signal. It could be Discord. It could be
whatever. So, the deeper you get into
this agentic OS or AI OS or whatever the
term will be 5 hours from now, the
deeper you understand that this is a
data engineering problem. This is not a
AI problem. And once you get the hang of
one of them, and you start playing
around and giving it feedback saying,
"You know what? I hated the way you did
this." This is where you don't have
self-improving, but you have iterative
improving, which when it comes down to
it, for business purposes, the best way
to build agents is to have an infinite
game mindset where there is no one
solution. There's no Hermes agent or
open claw agent configuration that's
going to be perfect for you. This is an
iterative process, and basically fixing
your back of house and layering this on
top allows you to go iteratively and
decide, is this a data layer problem or
is this my operating system problem? And
to help you not only understand but
implement a lot of the concepts that I
walked you through, I'm going to make
available to you a series of resources.
This includes a full blueprint of my
existing system that you could feed to
Claude Code, Codex, and reverse engineer
everything that I showed you here. You
could also take the transcript of the
video. You could even take the video
itself and feed that to Gemini and ask
it to create the perfect prompt for you,
to design it, but I'll also give you as
many supporting documents as you need
along with the skills to create the
memory system of your dreams. And again,
this is something that I've been working
on non-stop. I've been iterating on it
for months and everyone in my exclusive
community has had access to each and
every version and all the supplementary
information. So, if you want the carbon
copy version of my command center and
you want to keep tabs on everything else
we have coming up, which is even an
enterprise grade version of the system,
then you'll want to check out the first
link in the description below and I'll
see you in my early adopters community.
As for the rest of you, if you found
this video helpful, inspirational, and
hopefully informative, then please let
me know by leaving a like on the video
and a comment. It really helps the video
and the reach and I'll see you all in
the next one.
