So what you're looking at right now
isn't OpenClaw, and it most certainly
isn't Hermez H. You're looking at my
mission control for my existing Claude
Code Command Center. And the best part
is, this is using my existing Claude
Code subscription, and it's using my
existing Claude Code ecosystem. And of
all the features that I could show you,
this one is my favorite, which is the
ability to hop into our war room and
have a conversation with our Council of
Agents. So all you do is click enter,
hear this beautiful track behind the
scenes, and then we have our agents
assemble, go to the left-hand sidebar,
and we can have a conversation with our
main agent.
Hey, how's it going?
Same as always. All good. Okay, awesome.
So I have a whole YouTube audience
watching you live. Can you explain to
them what it is that you do?
I'm Main, Mark's triage and default
agent. I handle general requests and
delegate tasks to specialized agents to
get things done fast. Okay, so just in
case to make sure that you're not a
gimmick, can you actually assign a task
to our communications agent to create a
script for me on creating a YouTube
video about basically putting together a
Claude Code Command Center?
That task is already in progress with
Comms. Okay, so when do you think it'll
be done?
I don't have an exact timeframe, but
Mark will get a Telegram notification
when it's ready. And just a few minutes
later, this singular agent is able to
kick off this task, and we get this
whole script from our communications
agent walking through the script, the
structure, and everything that we would
need to do to put together a great
YouTube video. And on top of that, if I
want to, I have this experimental
feature that will allow me to actually
hop into the equivalent of a Google Meet
and have a back-and-forth conversation
with my main agent. So I can click on
create room, we can copy this over, we
can paste it in, and then voila, within
seconds we will see our beautiful main
agent here, and I will say, "Hello,
hello. How are you?" I'm good. What's
up? Yeah, I want to plan out my day.
What do you think I should do? Should I
do my YouTube video first? Should I send
out my emails? Should I respond to my
community members? What do you think is
the best thing for me to do today?
YouTube hits wider reach and builds
authority faster than individual emails
or community engagement, which are more
maintenance. Knocking out the big stuff
first sets you up for a better day.
All right, cool. And this is really a
glimpse of what my Claude Claw operating
system can do. I dropped the V0 version
of this build more than a month ago on
YouTube, and many of you seemed to like
it. And ever since then, I've spent
hundreds of hours improving and
adjusting every single feature to get
the absolute most out of it. And as I've
been improving it, my members are
swearing by it. So, in this video, I'm
not just going to show you these
features and dangle them in front of
you. I'm going to give you the entire
map of how you could build this
yourself. So, if you stick around to the
very end, you'll never have to turn your
head for a brand new framework ever
again. Let's dive in. So, just in case
you're less familiar, this entire stack
is built on top of one single element.
And this element that enables everything
is called the Agent SDK, which stands
for software development kit. It's a
free framework released by Anthropic
that essentially allows you to run a
remote terminal session of Claude code
from whatever program or interface that
basically speaks to it. So, the SDK is
the bridge, and all you have to do is
decide what kind of device you want to
interact with it from. So, in my V0 aha
moment, we just had to choose an
interface, then choose one modality, in
which case I chose Telegram, but you
could also use Slack or Discord or
whatever you wanted, and then we added
on the layer three, which included the
Telegram API, which is manage the
connection between the SDK, your Claude
code session, and Telegram. And then we
had some basic memory, and we used
something called SQLite, which is a
light version of a database that runs
free on your computer in a very
lightweight file. And the best part of
this stack was it promised to be
infinitely malleable because outside of
these 200 lines of code to enable the
bridge between the SDK and your service,
you can add on whatever you want. So,
over the hundreds of hours that I've
invested to improve this build, it has
now evolved into this where I have
multiple user interfaces, not just the
phone, but we have, like you saw, my
mission control from the dashboard as
well as the browser. In terms of
channels, you can connect to everything
I mentioned before. And then in terms of
the memory, we have a lot richer memory.
So, we have different layers from a
cloud MD file to your SQL light memory
to pinned memories to memories that
decay over time. And we even inject some
Obsidian notes depending on what
Obsidian vault each agent is handling.
So, let's say the communications agent
would tap into any folders from my
Obsidian related communications. And
whereas we had one single agent before,
we are now essentially doing the
equivalent of running multiple terminal
sessions that are dedicated to that
specific context of agent. And to make
sure that all agents could communicate
with each other and keep track of what
the other is up to, we created something
called the hive mind. And this is a
unified memory state of every task that
has been completed by a specific agent.
And in terms of subsystems, we use
things like Gemini to basically take a
look at our entire conversation and
decide dynamically what deserves to be a
persistent memory versus a throwaway
memory. And then we add on different
layers such as the voice layers that you
saw in my demo. And we use things like
Gemini live and PipeCat, which I'll get
to a little bit later. Now, the meeting
stack is highly experimental and I
enable things like using Pika, which
allows an actual avatar to interact with
you, but it is eye-wateringly expensive
for now. We have what I showed you,
which is daily.co, which creates that
Google Meet experience. And then we have
a few other options. And this is really
what I want to explore moving forward.
And in terms of security, if someone
knows your Telegram username for for
individual agent or agents, the way we
would stop them from being able to ask
questions, ask for credentials, or
basically ping any request to it and
receive a response, is making sure that
your chat ID is only on the allow list.
So, you create the agent and it
recognizes that only this Telegram user
from this Telegram account can actually
message and interact. And lastly, back
in the past, I had to use a terminal to
spin up this Claude Code agent that runs
on the SDK. But now, we have this
service that's called Launch that, as
soon as I turn on my computer, every
single agent spins up and I can use them
right away. And the mission control I
showed you runs through a Cloudflare
tunnel. So, we can go back into Telegram
and I could do something like {slash}
dashboard, and this will give me a
direct access that I can click on this
specific link, go to our dashboard, and
we can interact with it from here. And
in addition to that, you can add a new
agent from your mission control
dashboard, you can change the models,
and do all kinds of stuff. So, my core
goal with this video is you can
essentially take the transcript, take
these images and resources that I'll
make available to you for free in the
second link in the description below,
and you can essentially recreate
whatever it is that would be relevant to
you. Now, to address a question that you
might be thinking, why go to all of this
trouble just to not use OpenClaude or
Hermes agent or Louis Vuitton agent? The
reason being, I wanted to be able to
take advantage of all the skills, all
the infrastructure, everything that I've
set up on my computer, and then combine
that with added layers of functionality,
to use my existing subscription, and not
pay additional API costs. And the best
part is, as new things come out, cuz
today it's Hermes agent, tomorrow it's
Elephant agent. Let's say Elephant agent
explodes and now every single creator on
YouTube says it's insane and it crushes
everything. All you have to do is be
nice and relaxed. You can go and clone
that repo, you can bring it into Claude
Code, you can audit whatever features
you want that you find really impactful,
and then you can just bring that in. If
these are open-source frameworks, then
you can always go shop, take off the
shelf what interests you, and implement
it in your own way. And in terms of
assembling the team, it's literally the
equivalent of spinning up multiple
terminal sessions and running them at
the same time. So, if I pop over to my
Telegram and I just say,
"Hey, can you pull the latest emails
that are relevant for me to review?" And
I send that over. I can go to my Claude
claw and say, "Hey, do you know what my
ops agent has been up to recently? Can
you tap into the hive mind?"
And we keep throwing one request after
the other. "Hey, can you analyze my last
video and tell me how well it did in
terms of views and comments made?"
You have the exact same luxury of
running multiple terminal sessions,
except you can do it from anywhere you
want.
And although I have to blur the
response, you can see right here, it can
tap into the hive mind and retrieve
every single task that the ops agent has
been up to. So, in terms of agentic
memory, you don't just have it at the
singular agent level, you also have it
at the global level. And in terms of the
mission control center, instead of
having it be a pure wrapper on top of
transactional activity, you can actually
create and kick off tasks and use a
language model to decide what is the
best agent for said task. So, if we
scroll down to the very bottom here and
we click on new, I will say, "Create
thumbnail for my command center YouTube
video."
And then we will say, "The agent should
use the Nano Banana API to create a
beautiful thumbnail and send it to me
via Telegram. The thumbnail should just
have a picture of Claude, the Claude
Code mascot, running around, basically
causing havoc."
Then we will put, let's say, medium.
We'll click on create, and now we have
the core task. If you want to auto
assign it to the best agent, we will
click on auto assign, and behind the
scenes we'll have a language model,
using a a cheap model from Gemini, go
and decide what is the best model for
the job. And within seconds, the
language model rightly buckets this task
under the content agent. So then, it can
go and execute it as soon as I move it
from queued to live. And in terms of the
war room design, the way it works is we
have our main agent. This main agent has
a task where nine times out of 10, it
will try to delegate and throw a task
immediately. So it's trying to be the
optimal manager where it doesn't do
anything or shouldn't do anything itself
unless you explicitly tell it to do so,
but it should know all the skill sets of
comms, content, ops, research, and
whatever agent that it is that you add
and then push it to the one with the
right competency. And although you saw
me demo speaking specifically to the
main agent, you can also talk to the
comms, the content, the ops, or the
research agent just by clicking on them.
And again, I'm telling you this in case
you want to take this exact same design
and apply it on your end. Now, when it
comes to memory, it is a very hot topic
on YouTube, and everyone is producing
videos on what they think the best
system is.
But the truth is, memory is very
personal. So, you can use a lot of these
tools like Obsidian, like these vector
databases, but at the end of the day, my
memory system is designed for the way my
life works and the way my business runs.
So you can definitely use bits and
pieces from what you see on YouTube, but
you want to make sure that you can
really make it your own. So in my
version of memory, two core things are
happening. Number one, our Gemini behind
the scenes is acting like a washing
machine. So as it goes through the
conversation, we're using Gemini 3
flash, which is super cheap and has a
huge context window. So even if it's
monitoring all of my chats, knowing that
I'm not going to put anything in that
chat that's super private, it will be
able to see what is a fact, what is a
preference, and what's a context. And
accordingly, it'll be able to better
categorize it in our SQL light memory.
Now, in case SQL light is too light for
you, you can use things like Supabase,
Pinecone, purely Obsidian, and what I'm
doing with Obsidian behind the scenes is
because I have so many memories and so
many tasks and so many projects,
depending on the type of agent, any
folder within my Obsidian that's
relevant to content is auto-injected
with the Claude MD at the beginning of
that session. Same thing with Ops.
Anything related to my business
finances, our expenses, our workshops we
do for clients, all of that is always
auto-injected in memory. So, when you
ask it a question about your Obsidian,
it's using your existing CLI skills to
tap into it. So, another question that
might pop up is why go through all the
trouble to set up this SDK to use
something like Telegram when Anthropic
themselves have this feature that's
called channels where you can use Claude
code via Telegram, iMessage, Discord.
The one question I'd ask you is, have
you used it? Because for me, I've used
the Telegram, I've used the Discord, and
it keeps disconnecting. And that MCP
server is quick to set up, but after
two, three days of usages, it gets
disconnected on a regular basis. Because
I personally set up all of them, and I
noticed that the Discord and the
Telegram kept disconnecting even though
it was using a stable MCP server behind
the scenes. And for me, the last thing I
want to worry about is opening up my
phone after waking up and seeing that
Telegram is not connected. But just in
case you want to use these channels,
then you definitely can. This whole
system is very modular. The only part
that we really needed to use is those
200 lines of code to let us run this
remote Claude code session. And for
those who are more technically inclined,
this is what happens when we send a
message via Telegram. Now, step one is
you send your message. And then from
Telegram, it goes into a queue, which is
basically a waiting room. This waiting
room is designed because what if
multiple agents are firing messages at
the same time? And what if with a
singular agent conversation, you have a
scheduled task or a cron job that runs
and then it fires a response. And then
at the same time, you send a question to
get a different response. Usually, this
would lead to some form of silent
failure. But, the way I've designed it
is to have this queuing system to have
only one message be pushed to one agent
at one particular time. And then we have
the language model behind the scenes
that classifies, what is this
conversation and message about at all
times, and deciding what should be, if
anything, committed to memory, and what
might deserve to be a pinned memory. And
just in case you don't know what I mean
when I say pinned memory, if we go to
our dashboard and we scroll to the very
bottom here, you'll see that we have 99
general memories, then we have 122
insights. These are insights that
Gemini's making on my preferences, what
I like, what I don't like, etc. And then
we have these pinned memories. And these
are memories that I want to persist
across all agents, all time. And these
are things like my name, address, email
address, business mailing list,
everything that is really fundamental to
be always taken into account. And then
we have the importance distribution
where we can gauge what memories are
important and which ones are likely to
fade out. And if I scroll to the very
bottom, which I don't want to because
there's personal information, you will
see a whole list of memories that are
about to go outside of the database and
ones that will persist no matter what.
And the last notable element here is
this guard that makes sure that if
someone messages your Telegram bot, that
they won't receive a response because
they are not permissioned to interact
with it. Now, is this a bulletproof
setup? I will tell you no. You can add
multiple layers and maybe with Claude
Mythos, we will be able to add even
more. But, for the most part, we have
your data, then we have logs, then we
have a guard around who can interact
with your agent, then we have a PIN
where once you spin up your agents, you
can enter a PIN that allows you to
actually speak to them. And then we have
this chat ID allow list. What IDs are
allowed to actually interact with your
Telegram account? And you can keep
adding more and more layers. Now,
another huge elephant in the room is is
this something that works with the terms
of service of Anthropic? I am not a
lawyer. This is not legal advice. A lot
of the space when it comes to rules and
regulations around Anthropic's policies
have been very gray. But what hasn't
been gray is as of April 4th, they have
banned your ability to use your Claude
code subscription with third-party
providers and harnesses like Open
Claude. So someone asked Boris Cherny,
the creator of Claude code, can you use
your existing Claude code subscription
to use and run something like the Agent
SDK for personal local tools? This being
a good example of a personal tool that
I'm not commercializing whatsoever. The
last time I saw something about this, he
did confirm that it should be legit. But
again, this space changes all the time.
This is not legal advice. Do your own
due diligence. But from what I can see,
it seems fair game that you can use your
Claude subscription with the Claude
ecosystem using the Claude bridge to the
Claude code harness. So the overall
benefit of you using this ecosystem is
that you are sitting here and then you
have this layer, which I call for myself
Claude claw.
In here you can add whatever feature it
is that appeals to you. If you see
something that says Hermes is even more
insane, it added X, you can go, pull the
GitHub repo, give it the Claude code and
say, "Can you tell me what it would look
like to add this to our existing system
layered on top of our Claude code
agents?" Then you go back and forth,
make a plan, and you implement it. So as
new things continually come out and they
won't stop, you don't have to worry
about doing the equivalent of moving
houses. As the Anthropic ecosystem gets
better, the models get better, memory
gets better, you have native slash
commands, you get all of that out of the
box, then you layer on things that are
personalized and customized to you, and
then you're at the very top. If anything
ever changes, the majority of your
foundation is built on your operating
system anyway. Everything else is a
luxury that you're adding on. So you're
investing in your Claude code ecosystem
on your computer, focusing on making the
best skills/commands and processes
possible. And if something were to ever
happen to this layer, it wouldn't be the
end of the world as it would if you had
an open claw full setup with a full
structure of all your different
microservices and prompts and skills
that are tailored to that one specific
framework. Now, I initially teased you
with my war room, but how would you go
about designing something like this?
So, the cross-section of what the war
room looks like is you have your
browser. And in the browser, you have
something running on localhost, which is
your local server on your computer. We
then use something called a websocket.
This creates a live connection between
your browser and all of these
microservices. And we use this medium
called Pipe Cat, which is an open-source
voice agent orchestration framework.
Now, I'll go deeper into what Pipe Cat
is and how it works on the next slide.
But for now, you can just think of it as
your overall server where everything
related to voice is managed. And behind
the scenes, if we ever need to assign a
task to a sub agent, like you saw me go
from voice to a Telegram message handled
from that same conversation, it's
basically spinning up a mini Claude code
and executing via the SDK sub commands
using our existing agents. And in terms
of the speech-to-speech, speech-to-text,
or whatever it is that you end up
choosing, you can use something like
Deepgram, Cartesia, or Gemini Live. Now,
if you want the leanest stack possible,
and probably the cheapest, you can use
Gemini Live, and you would use Pipe Cat
to manage the entire infrastructure. So,
it's not just voice. You can do voice
and not have to use the tool calling
from Gemini and maybe do your own tool
calling using your version of Claude
code that you can spawn on demand. Now,
if some of this is going over your head,
I'm going to have a series of resources
for you to be able to read through and
better understand what might be the best
fit for you. Now, like I said, I'm going
to double-click on Pipe Cat just because
it's very malleable and versatile for
all kinds of ways to interact with
voice. Another alternative could be
LiveKit. But in terms of PipeKit, I like
it because it is open source, so it's
hackable and malleable. And basically
what happens is you have something
called the transport, which is a fancy
word for you basically your microphone
input into your browser. Then this goes
to multiple stations. So you have, let's
say, six stations. One of them could be
speech-to-text, the other would be
text-to-speech, assuming that you don't
have a language model in between to
manage that on its own. And then you
have the transport on the output side to
go from input to speaker output and go
through that loop to allow you to have
that back-and-forth conversation. So if
you think of different assets from the
conversation as an envelope, all PipeKit
is doing behind the scenes is just
labeling each envelope of what you said,
what Cloud Code replied, when it seems
to be time to route a request to a
different agent. And it's infinitely
malleable, like I said, so you can keep
adding different envelopes, and
PipeKit's job is to just manage which
envelope is going to which destination.
And this whole managing process really
comes down to three main rules. You ask
the question, does what Mark said
contain anything around everyone, team,
or status update? Then it looks like we
should route it to this specific agent.
Does it start with an agent name prefix,
meaning that I call the communications
agent, like I did at the start, by name?
If so, it's very explicit. Did you pin a
specific file, or did you manipulate the
JSON in a particular way? So we always
route certain requests to certain
agents. It becomes more malleable, and
you can add as many or as few rules as
you want. Now, I can spend way more time
diving into each nook and cranny of how
this build is set up. But again, I will
provide you enough blueprints,
structures, some information documents
that you can sift through, or, let's be
real, your LLM can sift through to see
if setting up something like this makes
sense for you. And like I did in the
first video, I'll also drop a very large
prompt that you can feed into Claude
code that allow you to go back and forth
and decide on designing your version of
this infrastructure. With the models we
have now, you could probably get up and
running in less than an hour. And trust
me, if you're a business owner and
you're looking for the perfect solution
to manage your Claude code while you're
on the go and you do have something like
a portable laptop or a Mac mini, this
setup will absolutely destroy something
like an open claw assuming they're not
using open-source models. And with that,
hopefully this inspires you on what's
possible just using your existing Claude
code subscription layering on top
whatever memory services, voice
services, or any service that really
caters to your needs. Now, if you want
my personal system that I've constantly
been working on and all of my members
have continually been raving about, then
you'll definitely want to check out the
first link in the description below so
you can do a one-click clone of my
system, set it up, and be up and running
in less than half an hour. If the rest
of you if you want to figure this out on
your own, again, you'll find all the
goodies, the blueprints, etc. in the
second link in the description below
completely free. Happy building and I'll
see you in the next one.
